---
layout: post
title:  "CookcoLab"
date:   2015-06-16
categories: ORM
---

##My ORM

####What's an ORM?

Object-relational mapping (ORM) is a technique (a.k.a. design pattern) of accessing a relational database from an object-oriented language.

Using ruby, in my class and instance methods modules, I have several functions: create, read, update, and destroy. I'm able to use these to intereact with tables in my database. 


My ORM consists of Ruby accessing 

To me, Object-relational mapping deals with the idea of storing everything in its place. While there are cases when getting ONE specific field from a database table may make sense, most of the time, if you're going to make a trip to the database, why not carry a full backpack? When I send a query to a database it makes the most sense to bring back a feasible amount of information. With this abundance of information, the best way to package it neatly to be manipulated is as an Object. With all of the information from a set of rows saved as Objects I have more maneuverability with ruby than I would with a set of unwieldy Hashes.

####How does your ORM help you get all of a particular table's rows from the database?
```ruby
CONNECTION.execute("SELECT * FROM users")
```

To get a particular table's rows from the database, running the above command will return the rows as an Array of Hashes. The "*" serves as telling the database to select all of the collumns in a row.

```ruby
=> [{"id"=>4, "name"=>"Gemma Rae", 0=>4, 1=>"Gemma Rae"},
 {"id"=>6, "name"=>"John Marston", 0=>6, 1=>"John Marston"},
 {"id"=>7, "name"=>"Amy Stephen", 0=>7, 1=>"Amy Stephen"},
 {"id"=>8, "name"=>"Jason Zoz", 0=>8, 1=>"Jason Zoz"},
 {"id"=>9, "name"=>"Walter White", 0=>9, 1=>"Walter White"}]
```

I can make an object by initializing a new object with the class related to the table in use, and remove the object from the array with: 

```ruby
User.new(CONNECTION.execute("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = 6").first)
```

This will return a User object

```ruby
 # => #<User:0x007f876cbc4e68 @id=6, @name="John Marston">
```

I get sent back a list of rows (organized as an Array of Hashes) specific to my query. With the "*" portion of the SQL query, I can create full fledged Objects from the information in the database table.

####How does your ORM represent rows from a table, given that Ruby doesn't have a Table data structure?

In aligning a model with a specific table, I can match the @attributes of that Object with the column names of that table. In doing so, the Hash returned from the query fits like a glove in the Object mold I have created. This in-turn allows me the built-in flexibility from Ruby to work with the Objects (which are essentially rows in a table wearing fancy clothes). The matching of attributes and column names also has the benefit of being able to seamlessly insert or update a row in a table using a Ruby Object as the specialized tool.

####How does your ORM convert rows from a table into the Ruby data structure (which you identified in the previous question)?

After making a SQL query, my return is an Array of Hashes. Due to the premeditated matching of the column names with the attributes of that Object, a fairly simple set of code can transform each key => value pair of the Hash into a personalized Ruby Object. By iterating through the Array, I have turned a lump of coal into a shiny diamond.